
As this is being written, millions of people are staying home and distancing themselves from others. 
There are likely differences in detail between the societal effects on different countries, but Canada
is probably -- as it so often is -- somewhere in the middle of the array of statistics about economic,
social and medical statistics. 

While it is tempting to agonize about the present, this posting is about the society that will emerge 
in Canada as the pandemic wanes. And wane it will, preferably by dint of collective discipline rather
than survival of the luckiest. 

Some of the lessons of the pandemic appear to be

- that globalization makes us very vulnerable to non-local sources of strategic goods
- that personal services -- recently a rapidly growing economic sector -- can be 
wiped out by a few molecules of protein and nucleic acid
- that we need to pay attention to ensuring our supply chains for food, medicines and equipment,
and other products without which our lives and well-being are at risk

All well and good, but how much of the service sector is going to bounce back? Probably a good
chunk of the restaurants and bars, since we are social beings. No doubt such personal services
as hairdressers and gyms will gradually recover, but cruise ships may need to be repurposed.
Could they house refugees? Their crews and hospitality staff probably won't be needed.

Air travel has in the last two decades moved to tighter and tighter seating, with more and more
of us zooming about the planet. These two factors have loomed large in spreading the novel virus.

We are seeing governments spread largesse to maintain the incomes of citizens. Otherwise, we may
see inconvenience morph to dislocation and possibly mayhem. Program after program is rolled out
in a rapid fire of action. A machine gun rate compared to a match-lock muzzel loader. Is this an
efficient approach? I would claim it is not, especially compared to a minimum income.

In practical terms, there are no fully fair systems. Paying every citizen a standardized amount
based on age could replace child, old age, disability, emergency, unemployment and other benefits. There are
precedents, including some in Canada, where minimum income has been tried. Yes, some people
will take the money and sponge off the nation. But many already do, courtesy of the myriad of
strange and unnecessary sinecures that have been established over our history. Minimum incomes
are a floor, and most of us don't want to live on the floor.
